doc(security): network policy setup guide (#1404)
longhorn/website: content/docs/1.13.0/advanced-resources/security/network-policy.md

weight: 4
---

## Overview

Longhorn can use Kubernetes `NetworkPolicy` resources to restrict inbound traffic to Longhorn components. A network plugin that implements NetworkPolicy is required; creating the resources has no effect otherwise. Network policies are additive, and a connection must be allowed by both the source egress policy and the destination ingress policy when both policies isolate the connection.

For the component communication matrix, ports, and traffic that is not covered by the Helm policies, see the [Longhorn networking reference](../../../references/networking). Review that reference after every Longhorn upgrade and when changing the CNI, ingress controller, node placement, or topology.

The chart templates are also available in the [Longhorn source repository](https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/tree/v{{< current-version >}}/chart/templates/network-policies).

## Policy groups generated by the Helm chart

The chart has two separate policy groups:

- **Internal policy:** Controlled by `.Values.networkPolicies.restrictInternalTraffic` and enabled by default.
- **UI frontend policy:** Controlled by `.Values.networkPolicies.enabled` and disabled by default.

> These values are independent. Continue to the following sections for the behavior and requirements of each group.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These values are independent. The following sections describe the behavior and requirements of each group.
```

### Internal Longhorn ingress policies

When `.Values.networkPolicies.restrictInternalTraffic` is `true`, the chart creates Ingress-only policies for internal Longhorn components. `.Values.networkPolicies.kubeAPIServerSourceCIDRs` is part of this internal policy group and configures the webhook policy.

The internal policies are generated even if `networkPolicies.enabled` is `false` (the chart default for `restrictInternalTraffic` is `true`). Check the rendered manifests and keep the required Longhorn labels if you add another component or move a component to a custom namespace.

### UI frontend ingress policy

The UI policy is a separate policy for the `longhorn-ui` pods. It is generated when all of the following are true:

- `.Values.networkPolicies.enabled` is `true`.
- `.Values.ingress.enabled` is `true`.
- `.Values.networkPolicies.type` is not empty.

> The only frontend policy is `longhorn-ui-frontend`. The chart populates the intended ingress-controller source rules only for these supported types:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The only frontend policy is `longhorn-ui-frontend`. The chart populates ingress-controller source rules only for these supported types:
```

- `k3s`: the Traefik pods in `kube-system`.
- `rke2`: the RKE2 ingress-nginx controller in `kube-system`.
- `rke1`: the ingress-nginx controller in the `ingress-nginx` namespace.

> An unsupported non-empty type still renders the policy but does not populate a matching controller source rule, which can make the UI unreachable. Confirm that the selected type, namespace, and labels match the deployed ingress controller.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An unsupported, non-empty type still renders the policy but does not populate a matching controller source rule, which can make the UI unreachable. Confirm that the selected type, namespace, and labels match the deployed ingress controller.
```

The policy does not discover a custom ingress controller. If you use another controller, custom labels, a different namespace, a gateway, host networking, or a custom topology, inspect the generated policy and adjust it to match the actual traffic. Use the [networking reference](../../../references/networking) to account for all Longhorn component connections rather than widening every policy to all sources.

> A representative Helm values fragment is:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A representative Helm values example:
```

```yaml
networkPolicies:
  enabled: true
  restrictInternalTraffic: true
  type: k3s
  kubeAPIServerSourceCIDRs:
    - 10.42.0.0/32
```

Set `enabled` to `false` if the UI policy is not wanted. That does not disable the internal policies; set `restrictInternalTraffic` to `false` only when you intentionally manage those policies yourself.

## Restricting the Webhook API server source

The Kubernetes API server calls admission webhooks when matching resources are created, updated, or deleted. Longhorn provides a conversion webhook on TCP `9501` and an admission webhook on TCP `9502` for mutating and validating Longhorn resources. For details about the Kubernetes admission sequence, see the [Kubernetes admission webhook documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/extensible-admission-controllers/).

> These webhook endpoints must remain reachable by the Kubernetes API server, but other workloads do not need direct access. Longhorn cannot determine the trusted source CIDRs for every distribution and network configuration. You must configure `.Values.networkPolicies.kubeAPIServerSourceCIDRs` with the API server source CIDRs defined by your Kubernetes distribution and cluster network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These webhook endpoints must remain reachable by the Kubernetes API server, but other workloads typically do not need direct access. Longhorn cannot determine the trusted source CIDRs for every distribution and network configuration. You must configure `.Values.networkPolicies.kubeAPIServerSourceCIDRs` with the API server source CIDRs defined by your Kubernetes distribution and cluster network.
```

Author: Duplicated and will take the next suggestion (`Configure ...`).

Reviewer: Yes, sorry for the confusion.

See the official [RKE2 networking documentation](https://docs.rke2.io/networking/basic_network_options), [RKE2 networking services and egress selector documentation](https://docs.rke2.io/networking/networking_services), and [RKE2 server configuration reference](https://docs.rke2.io/reference/server_config).

#### Amazon EKS

There is no universal EKS CIDR for `kubeAPIServerSourceCIDRs`. The public endpoint's `publicAccessCidrs` limits client source addresses that may reach the public Kubernetes API endpoint; it is unrelated to the source addresses used when the managed control plane calls a Longhorn webhook.

In `AWS_MANAGED` mode, Amazon EKS creates two to four requester-managed network interfaces (ENIs) in any configured cluster subnet and replaces them during cluster upgrades, so individual ENI `/32` entries are not stable.

> For `AWS_MANAGED`, allow every configured cluster subnet CIDR only when those subnets are dedicated and workloads cannot receive addresses there; otherwise, automatically reconcile current ENI private addresses as `/32` entries after upgrades and cluster subnet changes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For `AWS_MANAGED`, allow every configured cluster subnet CIDR only when those subnets are dedicated and workloads cannot receive addresses there; otherwise, reconcile the current ENI private addresses as `/32` entries using your own automation after upgrades and cluster subnet changes.
```
